docs/installation.rst, before:

.. Copyright 2013 – present by the SalishSeaCast Project Contributors
.. and The University of British Columbia
..
.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.. you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.. You may obtain a copy of the License at
..
..    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.. WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.. limitations under the License.

.. SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0


.. _SalishSeaCmdPackageInstallation:

*************************************
``SalishSeaCmd`` Package Installation
*************************************

``SalishSeaCmd`` is a Python package that provides the :program:`salishsea`
command-line tool for doing various operations associated with the
:ref:`SalishSeaNEMO` model.
It is an extension of the ``NEMO-Cmd`` package customized for working with
the SalishSeaCast NEMO model.

These instructions assume that:

* You have up to date clones of the :ref:`SalishSeaCmd-repo` and :ref:`NEMO-Cmd-repo`
  repositories
* You have a `Conda`_ Python environment and package manager
  (`Miniforge`_ or `Miniconda3`_)
  installed

  .. _Conda: https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/
  .. _Miniforge: https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge
  .. _Miniconda3: https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html

To install the ``SalishSeaCmd`` package so that the :command:`salishsea` command is
available in your :file:`$HOME/.local/bin/` directory,
go to the directory in which you cloned the :ref:`SalishSeaCmd-repo`
and :ref:`NEMO-Cmd-repo` repositories, then do:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ conda env create -f SalishSeaCmd/envs/environment-hpc.yaml
    $ conda activate salishsea-cmd
    (salishsea-cmd)$ python3 -m pip install --user --editable NEMO-Cmd
    (salishsea-cmd)$ python3 -m pip install --user --editable SalishSeaCmd

The ``--editable`` option in the :command:`pip install` commands installs the packages
in a way that they can be updated when new features are pushed to GitHub by simply
doing a :command:`git pull` in the package clone directories.

The ``--user`` option in the :command:`pip install ... SalishSeaCmd` command installs
the :command:`salishsea` command in your :file:`$HOME/.local/bin/` directory which is
where the :file:`SalishSeaNEMO.sh` shell scripts generated by the :command:`salishsea run`
command expect to find it.

The ``SalishSeaCmd`` package can also be installed in an isolated :program:`conda`
environment.
The common use case for doing so it development,
testing,
and documentation of the package;
please see the :ref:`SalishSeaCmdPackageDevelopment` section for details.

Commit message:

Update installation docs to use Pixi
- Replaced Conda-based instructions with Pixi-based documentation.
- Simplified package installation process using `pixi run`.
- Adjusted formatting and references for consistency.

docs/installation.rst, after:

.. Copyright 2013 – present by the SalishSeaCast Project Contributors
.. and The University of British Columbia
..
.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.. you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.. You may obtain a copy of the License at
..
..    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.. WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.. limitations under the License.

.. SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0


.. _SalishSeaCmdPackageInstallation:

******************************************
:py:obj`SalishSeaCmd` Package Installation
******************************************

:py:obj`SalishSeaCmd` is a Python package that provides the :program:`salishsea`
command-line tool for doing various operations associated with the
:ref:`SalishSeaNEMO` model.
It is an extension of the :py:obj`NEMO-Cmd` package customized for working with
the SalishSeaCast NEMO model.

These instructions assume that:

* You have an up to date clone of the :ref:`SalishSeaCmd-repo` repository.

* You have installed the Pixi_ package and environments manager
  (`installation instructions`_).

  .. _Pixi: https://pixi.prefix.dev/latest/
  .. _`installation instructions`: https://pixi.prefix.dev/latest/installation/

To install the ``SalishSeaCmd`` package so that the :command:`salishsea` command is
available in your :file:`$HOME/.local/bin/` directory,
go to the directory in which you cloned the :ref:`SalishSeaCmd-repo`
and :ref:`NEMO-Cmd-repo` repositories, then do:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ conda env create -f SalishSeaCmd/envs/environment-hpc.yaml
    $ conda activate salishsea-cmd
    (salishsea-cmd)$ python3 -m pip install --user --editable NEMO-Cmd
    (salishsea-cmd)$ python3 -m pip install --user --editable SalishSeaCmd

The ``--editable`` option in the :command:`pip install` commands installs the packages
in a way that they can be updated when new features are pushed to GitHub by simply
doing a :command:`git pull` in the package clone directories.

The ``--user`` option in the :command:`pip install ... SalishSeaCmd` command installs
the :command:`salishsea` command in your :file:`$HOME/.local/bin/` directory which is
where the :file:`SalishSeaNEMO.sh` shell scripts generated by the :command:`salishsea run`
command expect to find it.

The packages that are required by :py:obj:`SalishSeaCmd` will be downloaded and linked into
a working environment the first time that you use a `Pixi`_ command in the :file:`SalishSeaCmd/` directory
(or a sub-directory).
Example:

.. code-block:: bash

    cd SalishSeaCmd
    pixi run salishsea help

For doing so it development,
testing,
and documentation of the :py:obj:`SalishSeaCmd` package,
please see the :ref:`SalishSeaCmdPackageDevelopment` section.
